Created a doc to explain the back/charge point (#253)
LastProject-ESIEE/OCPPConfigurationServer: doc/serverChargepointCommunicationDoc.md

> # How does the charge points communicate with the server ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How does the chargepoints communicate with the server ?
```

## Overview

> This document is about the process and the description of the server to charge points and charge points to server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is about the process and the description of the server to chargepoints and chargepoints to server.
```

The process will be explained with examples and according to the OCPP protocol (1.6).

## Warning

> 1 : If a field is required for our application, it will be marked like that [X].

> 2 : The communication between the two machines is a request-response, meaning, for every request sent a response 
> is expected.

> 3 : The OCPP 2.0.1 protocol is not yet implemented, see [Not implemented](#ocpp-201) for more explanation.

## Processes

### First boot

> On startup, the charge point sends a **BootNotificationRequest** to the server containing these information :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On startup, the charge point sends a **BootNotificationRequest** to the server containing these informations :
```

Author: So, which of the two is the correct word to use? The answer is quite simple: “information” is the proper term. While “informations” may sound plausible, it is not grammatically correct in standard English. “Informations” is considered a non-standard or obsolete plural form of “information.”
Go [educate yourself](https://thecontentauthority.com/blog/informations-vs-information) nerd

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :nerd_face: :point_up: = you

- The charge point's constructor [X] ;
- The charge point's model [X] ;
- The charge point's serial number [X] ;
- The charge box serial number ;

> - The charge point's firmware version [X].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The charge point's constructor         [X] ;
- The charge point's model                 [X] ;
- The charge point's serial number     [X] ;
- The charge box serial number               ;
- The charge point's firmware version [X].
```
suggestion

> After receiving this message, we search in the database a charge point with the same serial number and vendor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After receiving this message, we search in the database a chargepoint with the same serial number and vendor.
```
vendor meaning constructor ?

> Then, the server responds with a **BootNotificationResponse** to the charge point containing these information :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, the server responds with a **BootNotificationResponse** to the chargepoint containing these informations :
```

Author: No

- The status (it can be Accepted (We found a corresponding charge point in the database)
Rejected (we did not find a corresponding charge point)) [X] ;
- The current time [X] ;
- The interval which the charge point should respect before sending a message [X].

> Then, the server would check the current state of the charge point before doing anything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The status (it can be Accepted (We found a corresponding charge point in the database)  
 or Rejected (we did not find a corresponding charge point))                               [X] ;
- The current time                                                                                                  [X] ;
- The interval which the chargepoint should respect before sending a message [X].

Then, the server would check the current state of the chargepoint before doing anything.
```

Reviewer: and are "Accepted" and "Rejected" String ?

### Firmware process

> If the charge point is in FIRMWARE mode in the database, the server will compare the firmware target 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the chargepoint is in FIRMWARE mode in the database, the server will compare the firmware target 
```

> in the linked configuration of the charge point to the current charge point's firmware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the linked configuration of the chargepoint to the current chargepoint's firmware.
```

If the target firmware is the same as the current firmware, 

> we just skip this process and put the charge point into CONFIGURATION mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we just skip this process and put the charge point into CONFIGURATION [mode](#configuration-process).
```

> If the target firmware is not the same, we downgrade or upgrade the firmware, step by step.

Reviewer: for downgrading it's to be continued...

During the firmware process, the server will choose intermediary firmwares before installing the target firmware,
so the process is technically a loop until the target firmware has been installed.

The process is started by the server sending an **UpdateFirmwareRequest** containing :
- The URL (FTP or HTTP/S) for the firmware file (.fwi) [X] ;

> - The retrieve date when the charge point should download the firmware [X].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The URL (FTP or HTTP/S) for the firmware file (.fwi)                              [X] ;
- The retrieve date when the charge point should download the firmware [X].
```

> The charge point should respond with an **UpdateFirmwareResponse** which is an empty message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chargepoint should respond with an **UpdateFirmwareResponse** which is an empty message.
```

It is like an ACK packet in a IP/TCP communication.

> The charge point will sometimes send a **FirmwareStatusNotificationRequest** containing the status of the download.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chargepoint will sometimes send a **FirmwareStatusNotificationRequest** containing the status of the download.
```

The status can be :
- Downloaded, the firmware has been downloaded ;
- DownloadFailed, the firmware couldn't be downloaded ;
- Downloading, the charge point currently downloads the firmware ;
- Idle, the charge point is waiting for a process to finish before installing the firmware ;
- InstallationFailed, the firmware couldn't be installed on the charge point ;
- Installing, the charge point currently installs the firmware ;

> - Installed, the firmware has been installed on the charge point.

Reviewer: same as Accepted and Rejected, find a way to highlight these

> If the status is DownloadFailed/InstallationFailed, all the processes are stopped.

Reviewer: didnt tought about it before but maybe mentionning here the SSS and most of the switching sates wener its needed

> If the status is Installed, we continue by rebooting the machine and continue by switching the charge point into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the status is Installed, we continue by rebooting the machine and continue by switching the chargepoint into
```

the CONFIGURATION mode.

If the status is something else, we just wait for the confirmation of the installation of the firmware.

### Configuration process

> If the charge point is in CONFIGURATION mode in the database, the server will compare the last update date in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the chargepoint is in CONFIGURATION mode in the database, the server will compare the last update date in 
```

the linked configuration and the last update date in the chargepoint table.

> If the configuration date is more recent than the charge point date, we skip this process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the configuration date is more recent than the chargepoint date, we skip this process.
```

Else, we search for the key/value in the configuration, and we send n packets for n key/value.

The server sends a **ChangeConfigurationRequest** containing :
- The key [X] ;

> - The value [X] ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The key    [X] ;
- The value [X] ;
```
suggestion

The charge point will respond with a **ChangeConfigurationResponse** containing a status.
This status can be :
- Accepted, the change has been accepted ;
- Rejected, the change has been rejected because the value is wrong ;
- RebootRequired, the change has been accepted but the charge point needs to reboot ;

> - NotSupported, the given key is not correct.

Reviewer: Same as previously

> - NotSupported, the given key is not correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Accepted, the change has been accepted ;
- Rejected, the change has been rejected because the value is wrong ;
- RebootRequired, the change has been accepted but the chargepoint needs to reboot ;
- NotSupported, the given key is not correct.
```

If all the messages sent by the server are Accepted or RebootRequired, the configuration is finished,

> and we send the last order containing the new server address, and we reboot the charge point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If all the messages sent by the server are Accepted or RebootRequired, the configuration is finished,
and we send the last order containing the new server address, and we reboot the chargepoint.
```
highlight Accepted / RebootRequired +  SSS

If not, we stop the process.

## Other

### Bugs

### Not implemented

#### OCPP 2.0.1

> The OCPP 2.0.1 protocol is not implemented because this application has been tested with Alfen BV's charge points

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OCPP 2.0.1 protocol is not implemented because this application has been tested with Alfen BV's chargepoints
```
So it's @ juherr fault ?

(Eve Single S-Line). 

We could not find the correct *Component* object for the **SetVariablesRequest**, except a Component called "none"
for this charge point.

However, the component "none" does not seem to work when giving new value to a key, it will always respond by
a Rejected.

> Moreover, here is a list of all the known Component for Alfen BV (for firmware >= 6.1).

Reviewer: Explain clearly that its the only components recognized by alfen compared to OCPP 2.0.1 standart. Maybe it's because of my bad english

# How does the chargepoints communicate with the server ?

## Overview

This document is about the process and the description of the server to chargepoints and chargepoints to server.
The processes will be explained with examples and according to the OCPP protocol (1.6).

This application is ready to accept other OCPP version such as 2.0.1.

## Warning

> 1 : If a field is required for our application, it will be marked like that *.

> 2 : The communication between the two machines is a request-response, meaning, for every request sent a response 
> is expected.

> 3 : The OCPP 2.0.1 protocol is not yet implemented, see [Not implemented](#ocpp-201) for more explanation.

> > 4 : The status is an enum defined by the OCPP protocol and will be highlighted like this : <mark>Test</mark>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 4 : Every time a status is mentionned, it is an enum defined by the OCPP protocol and will be highlighted like this : <mark>Test</mark>.
```

- <mark>Rejected</mark>, the change has been rejected because the value is wrong ;
- <mark>RebootRequired</mark>, the change has been accepted but the chargepoint needs to reboot ;
- <mark>NotSupported</mark>, the given key is not correct.

If all the messages sent by the server are <mark>Accepted</mark> or <mark>RebootRequired</mark>, 
the configuration is finished, and we send the last order containing the new server address, 
and we reboot the chargepoint.

If not, we stop the process, and we switch the status of the chargepoint as FAILED.

## Other

### Bugs

### Not implemented

#### OCPP 2.0.1

The OCPP 2.0.1 protocol is not implemented because this application has been tested with Alfen BV's charge points
(Eve Single S-Line), and the implementation of the 2.0.1 protocol is not fully done by Alfen BV. 

We could not find the correct *Component* object for the **SetVariablesRequest**, except a Component called "none"
for this chargepoint.

However, the component "none" does not seem to work when giving new value to a key, it will always respond by
a Rejected.

Moreover, here is a list of all the known Component for Alfen BV (for firmware >= 6.1).

> These components are the only components recognized by ALfen BV's chargepoints (Eve Single S-Line).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These components are the only components recognized by Alfen BV's chargepoints (Eve Single S-Line) from OCPP 2.0.1 norm.
```
